USF-2773 Integrating the new AddressValidation container in the user-account drop-in (#453)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/dropins/user-account/tutorials/validate-address.mdx

---
title: Validate address in My Account
description: Let shoppers confirm a suggested vs. original address when saving addresses in the Addresses container.
---

import Aside from '@components/Aside.astro';
import Diagram from '@components/Diagram.astro';

Use the `AddressValidation` container to present both the original and suggested addresses from your verification service, letting shoppers choose before saving. This tutorial shows how to integrate the container in the `commerce-addresses` block.

<Diagram caption="AddressValidation displayed in a modal">
  ![Validate address](@images/dropins/user-account/address-validation.png)
</Diagram>

## Overview

At a high level:

- Call your address verification service on form submit.
- If it returns a suggestion, open a modal and render `AddressValidation`.

> - If the shopper selects the suggestion, populate the form with it and re-submit; otherwise, keep the original values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the shopper selects the suggestion, populate the form with the suggested data and re-submit; otherwise, retain the original form values.
```

<Aside type="note">

> Code snippets reference utilities like `showModal`, `removeModal`, and `validateAddress`. Implement them to fit your application (examples of `validateAddress` and minimal CSS are included below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code snippets reference utilities like `showModal`, `removeModal`, and `validateAddress`. Implement these functions to match your application's needs (examples of `validateAddress` and basic CSS are provided below).
```

      const setContainerProps = (updates) => {
        addressesContainer.setProps((prev) => ({ ...prev, ...updates }));
      };

      const suggestedAddress = await validateAddress(originalAddress);
      if (!suggestedAddress) {
        finalizeSubmission(setContainerProps, formRef);
        return;
      }

      await renderAddressValidation({
        originalAddress,
        suggestedAddress,
        onEdit: (selectedAddress) => {
          setContainerProps({ inputsDefaultValueSet: selectedAddress });
        },
        onSave: (updates) => {
          finalizeSubmission(setContainerProps, formRef, updates);
        },
      });
    },
  })(block);
}
```

```javascript
// modal-utils.js
import createModal from '../modal/modal.js';

let modal;

export const showModal = async (content) => {
  modal = await createModal([content]);
  modal.showModal();
};

export const removeModal = () => {
  if (!modal) return;
  modal.removeModal();
  modal = null;
};
```

### Optional styles

```css
/* Minimal layout for the modal */
.modal-content {
  padding: 32px;
}

.actions-container {
  display: flex;
  gap: 16px;
  margin-top: 48px;
  justify-content: flex-end;
}
```

## Next steps

> -  See the [`AddressValidation` container](/dropins/user-account/containers/address-validation/) container for props and behaviors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- See the [`AddressValidation` container](/dropins/user-account/containers/address-validation/) container for props and behaviors.
```
